---
key: 7a7c099a99b92d3c36fc98d16cb8dd85
title: 'Insert title here'
---

## Designing Schemas

```yaml
type: TitleSlide
key: 227fdcfe06
```

`@lower_third`
name: Samer Salameh
title: Data Scientist

`@script`
SQL Server uses the concept of schemas to help organize and group database objects. This provides a number of benefits to the system. But to take full advantage, a plan must be developed that translates these object groups to the goals of the database's design.

---

## What Is a Schema?

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 5266e88075
```

`@part1`
- Object containers {{1}}
- Simplify management of groups of objects  {{2}}
- Every database begins with a .dbo schema  {{3}}
- Create schemas with T-SQL and add objects to them {{4}}




`@script`
Let's start with what a schema is. Schemas are simply containers or buckets that simplify the management of a number of objects by allowing the database administrators and SQL Server itself to apply permissions and other operations to the entire group without having to single out each and every member of the group individually.

Every database begins with a single DBO, or database owner schema, and unless otherwise specified, all objects will get created in this schema. 



---

## Creating your first Schema

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 7f102b7b32
hide_title: false
```

`@part1`
```
Create Schema Sales
``` {{1}}

 
```
Drop Schema Sales
``` {{2}}



`@script`
Schemas are created with a CREATE SCHEMA command and can be named however you'd like. Typically, schema names align with the departments in an organization such as warehouse, sales, or human resources.

Droping a schema can be simply by the drop command then the schema name , noting that you can't drop a schema if a table is already in this schema


---

## Creating a new object within a specific Schema

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 390350ce3a
```

`@part1`
```
CREATE TABLE [HumanResources].[Employee](
	[EmployeeID] [int] NOT NULL,
	[FirstName] [nvarchar](250) NOT NULL,
	[MiddleName] [nvarchar](250) NOT NULL,
    [LastName] [nvarchar](250) NOT NULL,
	[BirthDate] [date] NOT NULL,
	[Gender] [nchar](1) NOT NULL,
	[HireDate] [date] NOT NULL)
```

`@script`
To create a new object within a specific schema, simply provide the schema name when naming the object. 

So instead of a CREATE TABLE Employees, you'd type CREATE TABLE HumanResources.Employees. By default, the first command will place the Employees table in the DBO schema, and the second one that we just saw here will put it into the HumanResources schema. 

---

## Move object to different schema

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 5c91a6deec
```

`@part1`
```
ALTER SCHEMA HumanResources TRANSFER dbo.Employees.
```

`@script`
To move an existing object to a different schema, you'll alter the schema to include the object, as in ALTER SCHEMA HumanResources TRANSFER dbo.Employees.

---

## Let's practice!

```yaml
type: FinalSlide
key: a6fb9f7c2f
```

`@script`
